
[Status Codes Based On REST Methods](/https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)

In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

100’s = information status codes
>Usually tell the client that the header part of the request has been received and the server will try to comply with a transmission demand of the client. Like using a different protocol or telling the client that its request will fail before they start sending the body.


200’s = success codes,  request was accepted.
300’s = redirection codes
>Resource requested isn’t available at the expected location anymore. This can have multiple reasons, be temporary or permanent, but the client has to issue a request to the new location.


400’s = client error codes.
>They are all about invalid requests a client sent to a server. There are several causes to this, timeouts, wrong URI, missing authentication, etc. A client is sending incorrect input and should confirm the input parameters are correct before retrying the request.


500’s = server error codes, _retrying is advised_
What is a status code 202?

>In case of asynchronous processing of a request (202), this doesn’t mean the request was successfully processed only that it met all validation requirements at the time of sending.


What is a status code 308?
>Permanent Redirect - This tells the client to use another URL to access the resource and not use the current URL anymore. It’s helpful when we have multiple endpoints for one resource, but don’t want to implement reading from all of them.

What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?

>204 No Content - A proper code for updates that don’t return data to the client, for example when just saving a currently edited document.

What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?

410

What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?

403

[Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB](/https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFbNIlppjAuEX4znoulh0Cw)

Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?

To deploy on a deifferent s

What is middleware?

> It is those methods/functions/operations that are called BETWEEN processing the Request and sending the Response in your application method.

What does app.use(express.json()) do?

>express.json() is a method inbuilt in express to recognize the incoming Request Object as a JSON Object. This method is called as a middleware in your application using the code: app.use(express.json());

What does the /:id mean in a route?

_means this is a parameter that can be accessed request.params.id_

What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?

>PUT is a method of modifying resource where the client sends data that updates the entire resource . PATCH is a method of modifying resources where the client sends partial data that is to be updated without modifying the entire data

How do you make a default value in a schema?

    default:

What does a 500 error status code mean?

>eneric error response. It means that the server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request.

What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?
> 200-level response means that everything is working exactly as it should. 200: “Everything is OK.” This is the code that is delivered when a web page or resource acts exactly the way it's expected to. 201: “Created.” The server has fulfilled the browser's request, and as a result, has created a new resource