# 401.03 Reading

### Primitives vs Objects

 Java has a two-fold type system consisting of primitives such as int, boolean and reference types such as Integer, Boolean. Every primitive type corresponds to a reference type.

Every object contains a single value of the corresponding primitive type. The wrapper classes are immutable (so that their state can't change once the object is constructed) and are final (so that we can't inherit from them).

Under the hood, Java performs a conversion between the primitive and reference types if an actual type is different from the declared one:

Integer j = 1;          // autoboxing
int i = new Integer(1); // unboxing
Copy
The process of converting a primitive type to a reference one is called autoboxing, the opposite process is called unboxing.

https://www.baeldung.com/java-primitives-vs-objects

### What Is an Exception?

An exception is an event that occurs during the execution of a program that disrupts the normal flow of instructions.

The Catch or Specify Requirement
This section covers how to catch and handle exceptions. The discussion includes the try, catch, and finally blocks, as well as chained exceptions and logging.

How to Throw Exceptions
This section covers the throw statement and the Throwable class and its subclasses.

The try-with-resources Statement
This section describes the try-with-resources statement, which is a try statement that declares one or more resources. A resource is as an object that must be closed after the program is finished with it. The try-with-resources statement ensures that each resource is closed at the end of the statement.

Unchecked Exceptions — The Controversy
This section explains the correct and incorrect use of the unchecked exceptions indicated by subclasses of RuntimeException.

https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/index.html

 ### Scanner 

 Objects of type Scanner are useful for breaking down formatted input into tokens and translating individual tokens according to their data type.

 https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/io/scanning.html

 ## Things I want to know more about

 How often shoild we use primitives at all? 