```14.Reading```

## Hashing

A more secure way to store a password is to transform it into data that cannot be converted back to the original password. This mechanism is known as hashing. 
mathematical algorithm that maps data of any size to a bit string of a fixed size

It's easy and practical to compute the hash, but "difficult or impossible to re-generate the original input if only the hash value is known."
It's difficult to create an initial input that would match a specific desired output.

In contrast to encryption, hashing is a one-way mechanism. The data that is hashed cannot be practically "unhashed".



https://auth0.com/blog/hashing-passwords-one-way-road-to-security/

## BCrypt
Using a Key Factor, BCrypt is able to adjust the cost of hashing. With Key Factor changes, the hash output can be influenced. In this way, BCrypt remains extremely resistant to hacks, especially a type of password cracking called rainbow table.

Random ‘salt’ for each user
As an alternative, a random ‘salt’ string could be added for each user, created on the generation of the user account. This will increase encryption significantly as hackers will have to try to find a password for a single user at a time. Again, even though it means they will have to spend more time cracking the passwords for multiple users, they will still be able to gain access to your resources. It just takes longer.
https://danboterhoven.medium.com/why-you-should-use-bcrypt-to-hash-passwords-af330100b861

## jBCrypt

jBCrypt is a Java™ implementation of OpenBSD's Blowfish password hashing code, as described in "A Future-Adaptable Password Scheme" by Niels Provos and David Mazières.

This system hashes passwords using a version of Bruce Schneier's Blowfish block cipher with modifications designed to raise the cost of off-line password cracking and frustrate fast hardware implementation. The computation cost of the algorithm is parametised, so it can be increased as computers get faster. The intent is to make a compromise of a password database less likely to result in an attacker gaining knowledge of the plaintext passwords (e.g. using John the Ripper).

There seems to be a lack of good password hashes for Java - the top two hits in Google (as of 2006/05/24) for "Java password hash" and "Java password encryption" both offer terrible advice: one uses an unsalted hash which allows reverse dictionary lookup of passwords and the other recommends reversible encryption, which is rarely needed and should only be used as a last resort.

jBCrypt is licensed under a ISC/BSD licence (see the LICENSE file for details) and ships with a set of JUnit unit tests to verify correct operation of the library and compatibility with the canonical C implementation of the bcrypt algorithm. API is:

    // Hash a password for the first time
    String hashed = BCrypt.hashpw(password, BCrypt.gensalt());

    // gensalt's log_rounds parameter determines the complexity
    // the work factor is 2**log_rounds, and the default is 10
    String hashed = BCrypt.hashpw(password, BCrypt.gensalt(12));

    // Check that an unencrypted password matches one that has
    // previously been hashed
    if (BCrypt.checkpw(candidate, hashed))
        System.out.println("It matches");
    else
        System.out.println("It does not match");

https://www.mindrot.org/projects/jBCrypt/