Readings: Express REST API


_Review: ES6 Classes_

_Classes are a template for creating_ **OBJECTS**.

_Can a class declaration be hoisted?_

MDN:
>Unlike function declarations, class declarations are not hoisted (or, in some interpretations, hoisted but with the temporal dead zone restriction), which means you cannot use a class before it is declared. This behavior is similar to variables declared with let and const.

_How would you describe a constructor and contextual “this” ?_
Object referring to itself (object) where the code is ran.

Within Express, what does routing refer to?

>Routing refers to how an application's endpoints (URIs) respond to client requests.

What is the difference between a route path and a route method?

> route path is the "address", 
> route method "associates an HTTP verb verbs".


When is it appropriate to add next as a parameter to a route handler and what must you do if next has been passed to your middleware as a parameter?
Express Routing

_What is an Express Router?_
>The express. Router() function is used to create a new router object.

By what means do we initialize express.Router() in an express server?
>requiring and assigning express funtion  to a variable.

Within Express, what does routing refer to?
>how an application responds to a client request to a particular endpoint


>Express serves as a routing and Middleware framework for handling the different routing of the webpage and it works between the request and response cycle.

When is it appropriate to add next as a parameter to a route handler and what must you do if next has been passed to your middleware as a parameter?

>next() when we  continue with the first following path matching route. 
> If we never call next() or response, the request will be stuck on that middleware.