## nosql vs sql

What type of database is the best fit for the complex query intensive environment?

>SQL databases are good fit for the complex query intensive environment whereas NoSQL databases are not good fit for complex queries.

What type of database is the best fit for hierarchical data storage?
>NoSQL database fits better for the hierarchical data storage as it follows the key-value pair way of storing data similar to JSON data

_Describe the differences in scalability between a SQl and NoSQL database 
as though you were speaking to a non-technical friend._

>SQL - stricter rules, _tables_, better for complex queries<p>
NoSQL - freedom to structure db arbitrarily with key-value pairs

## sql modeling techniques

Among data tables, what is a one-to-many relationship and how do we “relate” them?

>Analogy: One author can have many books, but those books 
> _typically_ have only one author.

Prior to designing your relational database, it might be useful to 
**DRAW a DIAGRAM** of the database tables and their relationships.

_Explain the difference between a primary and foreign key._
> Primary key: uniquely identifies a row in a given "table".
>Foreign key: connects/corresponds to primary key in _another_ table


How do we treat keywords and parameters differently in SQL syntax?Data structure: 

>NoSQL databases store data in documents instead of tables.
Schema: SQL databases use a fixed schema, while NoSQL databases are more flexible.
Language: SQL databases use SQL (Structured Query Language), 
> while NoSQL databases use JSON (JavaScript Object Notation), XML, YAML, or binary schema.


Define normalization within the context of schemas and data.
>Normalization is the process of organizing data in a database to make it more flexible and protect the data. It involves creating tables and establishing relationships between them based on rules that eliminate redundancy and inconsistent dependencies
> 
Explain the difference between one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many relationships to a non-technical recruiter.
>A one-to-one relationship is when one record in one table is associated with one record in another table. For example, a student may have one passport, and a passport belongs to one student.
A one-to-many relationship is when one record in one table is associated with multiple records in another table. For example, a student may have multiple classes, but each class only has one teacher.
A many-to-many relationship is when multiple records in one table are associated with multiple records in another table. For example, a student may take multiple classes, and a class may have multiple students.
>
https://sequelize.org/master/