
### NodeJS and Express
_Middleware is:_

>Software go-between, extra layer for communication and functionality within NodeJS and Express applications.
Used as Express modules.

_Express:_ 
>The Most Popular `Node.js web application framework`. API development.

_Express is “Unopinionated” :_ 
>Free from architecture constrains.

_Modules and Modularity_: 
>Code can be modularized, reused, independently worked on.

### NPM

>Node Package Manager. 
Provides an easy way, to extend the web apps.
Large default sw ecosystem.

>10.2.1

>npm install jshint -
will ads jshint as a dependency (can be added globally as well)

### TDD
>Test-Driven Development ensures software functions and meets the specs.



>Bug detection, quality control, speed of development...

_Individual Pitfalls:_

>Overly Complex Tests.<p>
>Skipping Refactoring Step.

_Team Pitfalls:_

>Lack of Collaboration: 
can lead to duplication of efforts, inconsistent testing practices, 
and difficulties in integrating individual components. 

>Poor Test Coverage Balance: 
Achieving uneven test coverage across the codebase.

### CI/CD

_Benefits of Continuous Integration:_

>Smaller Code Changes. ...
Fault Isolations. ...
Faster Mean Time To Resolution (MTTR)

Difference Between Continuous Delivery and Continuous Deployment:

>main difference between Continuous Delivery and Continuous Deployment lies in the final step of the deployment process. In Continuous Delivery, the deployment to production is a manual decision, while in Continuous Deployment, it is an automated process triggered as soon as the code changes pass the necessary tests.

_GitHub's Role in CI/CD_
>GitHub Actions stands out as a populer CI/CD platform, empowering developers to seamlessly build, test, and deploy applications directly within their GitHub repositories, integrating popular dev/testing tools.
